PVsyst Tutorial: pvsyst_tutorial_components
Pages: 13
============================================================


--- Page 1 ---
 
 

--- Page 2 ---
 PVsyst SA – Components Databases 
Page 2 
 
Contents 
 
1 
Components Management ................................................................................. 3 
1.1 
Defining PV modules in PVsyst .................................................................... 3 
1.2 
Defining PV modules from Datasheets ......................................................... 3 
2 
Grid Inverter definition in PVsyst ......................................................................... 8 
2.1 
Defining an inverter from Datasheets ........................................................... 8 

--- Page 3 ---
  PVsyst SA – Components Databases 
Page 3 
 
1 Components Management 
1.1 Defining PV modules in PVsyst 
We will analyse the definition of PV modules in PVsyst (PAN files) by defining a new 
module from the datasheet. Here, we are going to define a Generic 325Wp module. To 
do so, first, click on the “Databases” button under Utilities from the main PVsyst screen. 
Then, click on the “PV modules” button under the components database. Once in the PV 
module’s database click “New” to create a new PV Module in the system. 
 
NB: in practice, it is much easier to start from an existing similar component present in 
the database, modify its parameters according to the datasheets and save it under a new 
file name, therefore creating a new component in your database. 
 
1.2 Defining PV modules from Datasheets 
Typically, the first page of a PV module datasheet gives the general features (usually 
rather "promotional") and the second page gives the technical specifications.  
When opening a new PV module, we start by defining the "basic data", such as:  
• the model, 
• the manufacturer (if already existing in the database, exactly the same 
name), 
• the data source (and possibly date of recording) 
• the file name, which is the primary key in the database, and should be 
unique. 
The convention in PVsyst is to define the filename as “Manufacturer_Model.PAN”.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 4 ---
  PVsyst SA – Components Databases 
Page 4 
 
Next, define the “Manufacturer Specifications" of the module:  
From the second page of the Datasheet:  
• Nom power:   the nameplate definition of the module (here 250 Wp). 
• Tolerance: 
usually specified as % of PNom; here through  
o «Pmpp range from … to". 
• The technology:   
here Poly-crystalline (as mentioned elsewhere on the 
datasheet). 
 
• The STC values:  
 Impp, Vmpp, Isc, Voc. 
o NB: The product   Vmpp * Impp should match the PNom (nameplate) 
within 0.2%., otherwise:   change the Impp value to PNom / Vmpp. 
• Efficiency at STC:  not a parameter in PVsyst. 
• NOCT:  never specified in PVsyst!  
• Reverse current feed:  property of the by-pass diodes, not used in PVsyst.  
 
 
Many datasheets mention operating parameters (Impp, Vmpp, Isc, Voc) under NOCT 
conditions.  
This information is not well standardized; we do not use it in PVsyst. 

--- Page 5 ---
  PVsyst SA – Components Databases 
Page 5 
 
The second tab of the dialog to be completed is the "Sizes and technology" of the 
modules.  
 
Usually you will find all these informations on the datasheet:  
 
 
• Module size: mandatory, the area will determine the efficiency of the module. 
• Cells number: the number in series is mandatory, as the model is defined for one 
cell. 
• Cells size: if defined, the cell's area may be used for defining the efficiency at cell 
level. 
• Usual values:  Poly 6" = 15.6 cm x 15.6 cm = 243.3 cm², Mono: idem - 6 cm2 = 237.3 
cm² 
• Maximum IEC or UL voltage:  used for the array sizing (may be 1'500V for new 
modules). 
• Number of by-pass diodes: used for the "Module layout" electrical losses 
calculation. 
You can add some informative features in the "Modul technology and specificities” (5 
lines of free text). 
 

--- Page 6 ---
  PVsyst SA – Components Databases 
Page 6 
 
The third tab is the "Model parameters” 
We start by defining the “Rshunt - Rserie".  
On this page, you should leave the Rserie and Rshunt at their default value (checkboxes). 
Sometimes, you will have to check them several times.  
 
This page summarizes other parameters, as calculated when establishing the one-diode 
model. 
NB: here the "muVoc" temperature coefficient is a result of the model. It cannot be 
matched to the datasheet's specified value.  This coefficient in only used during the sizing 
(safety low-temperature condition), it is not involved in the simulation.  
Proceeding to define the “Rshunt exponential". In absence of real measured values, 
leave the parameters at their default value.  
Lastly the “Temperature coefficient", is defined by Pmpp temperature coefficient, as 
specified on the datasheet: 
 
 
This is a fundamental parameter for the simulation. PVsyst modifies slightly the usual 
One-diode model to get the exact specified value. 

--- Page 7 ---
  PVsyst SA – Components Databases 
Page 7 
 
NB: The Current Isc temperature coefficient has been specified on the first page.  
 
The Voltage Uoc temperature coefficient may not match the value calculated by the 
model (Page "Model parameters > Rshunt-RSerie).  
 
This is not important, only used during the sizing for the voltage limits. If you want to 
use the value specified by the manufacturer, you can define on the page "Additional 
data” and choose to use it in the project's parameters.  
 
"Graphs” tab:  
Now the model is fully determined: you can see the results either as graphs or on the 
"Basic data" page > "Internal Model result tool", for any Irradiance and temperature 
conditions. 
"Additional Data” tab consists of:  
• "Secondary parameters": sometimes useful parameter. 
• "IAM": if you want to define a specific IAM profile for this module (special AR 
coating, etc.). 
• "Low-light data":  Explicitly specify low-light performances if measured.  
• "Measured I/V curve": allows to determine the model parameters from a 
measured I/V curve. 
Do not mind unless special requirements. 
The "Commercial" tab gives the following information:  
• Coordinates of the manufacturer (web site). 
• Availability (years of introduction and possible retrieval from the market). 
• Prices of the component (you may specify them by yourself). 
"Show optimization" button: Allows to modify the parameters and immediately see the 
effect on the behaviour of the module.  
"Copy to table" button: Exports the PAN file definitions as one line to an EXCEL 
document. 

--- Page 8 ---
  PVsyst SA – Components Databases 
Page 8 
 
2 Grid Inverter definition in PVsyst 
 
We will define the Inverter in PVsyst (.OND file) by defining a new inverter from the  
datasheet.  
NB: in practice, it is much easier to start from a similar component that exists in the 
database, modify its parameters according to the datasheets, and save it under a new file 
name, therefore creating a new component in your database. 
 
2.1 Defining an inverter from Datasheets 
Typically, the first page gives the general features and the second page gives the technical 
specifications.  
When opening a new inverter, we start by defining the "basic data" (similarly to the PV 
module):  
• the model, 
• the manufacturer (the same name if already existing in the database), 
• the data source (and possibly date of recording), 
• the file name, which is the primary key in the database, and should be unique. 
 
The convention in PVsyst is to define the filename as” Manufacturer_Model.OND. “ 
 
Then, we have to complete the main parameters on the datasheet, i.e., the input side, 
output side and efficiency.  

--- Page 9 ---
  PVsyst SA – Components Databases 
Page 9 
 
Input side: mainly concerns the voltage conditions.  
 
 
 
• "Minimum /Maximum MPP voltage":  the voltage range for the MPP operation. 
• In the PVsyst model, when attaining one of these limits, the inverter will "clip" 
the operating voltage to the limit voltage.  We suppose that this corresponds 
to the «Rated MPP voltage range".  
• We don't know exactly what the behaviour of the real inverter is outside of this 
range (what is specified as "MPP operating voltage range", 150 … 1000V). This 
is not involved in PVsyst. 
• "Minimum voltage for PNom”:  this is specified for some inverters: under this 
voltage the inverter will not be able to yield its full nominal power. This 
corresponds indeed to an input current limitation.  
• "Nominal MPP Voltage": sometimes specified, not used in PVsyst.  
• "Absolute Maximum PV voltage": this is the voltage which should not be 
exceeded, under the worst conditions: lower possible temperature and 1000 
W/m2. 
• "Power threshold": when using an automatic efficiency profile, this value is 
necessary and cannot be lower than 0.5% of Pnom. 
• "Nominal and Maximum PV power" are not used in PVsyst, except when they 
are a contractual condition which affects the guarantee of the device (case 
"Required" checked).  In this case they prevent simulation of the system.   
• "Maximum PV current» is sometimes specified (ISC of the array)), but not used 
in PVsyst. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 10 ---
  PVsyst SA – Components Databases 
Page 10 
 
Output side: grid-connection conditions.  
 
 
• "Frequency": 
 Here "Rated AC grid frequency" is 60Hz (for US market); we 
do not understand well what is meant by "AC grid frequency range". 
• "Grid voltage" is specific for US. The usual voltage is 400 V (in Europe). This 
voltage may be used in the simulation if AC losses are defined.  
• "Nominal AC Power":  if phase shift is allowed, this limitation is usually 
applied to the apparent power, and therefore expressed as [kVA]. 
• "Maximum AC Power":  some manufacturers allow to overcome the Pnom 
value if the temperature is not too high. This behaviour will be specified on the 
4th page "Output parameters". 
• "Nominal and Maximum AC current" are not used in PVsyst.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 11 ---
  PVsyst SA – Components Databases 
Page 11 
 
Efficiency variables:  
• "Maximum and Euro or CEC efficiency» values are a result of the second page 
(not editable here).  
• "Efficiency defined for 3 voltages" should be checked here when using this 
feature.  
 
After completing the basic data, we proceed to the "Efficiency curve" tab.   
Since we do not have the description of a full curve, we define the efficiency profile 
according to the datasheet: 
 
• Max efficiency = 98.2 % 
• CEC efficiency = 97.5 % 
 
 
 
NB: For the PVsyst database, the manufacturers usually specify their efficiency profiles 
as curves, often for 3 voltages.  However, these values are not present on the datasheets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 12 ---
  PVsyst SA – Components Databases 
Page 12 
 
 
The "Additional parameters" tab gives miscellaneous information that you have to 
gather on the Datasheets. Among these information, only the "multi-MPPT capability" and 
"number of MPPT inputs" are really used for the system definition and simulation.  
The "Auxiliary consumptions" are marginally used as default when defining the detailed 
losses. 
You will get a warning if you use a transformer-less inverter with amorphous modules.  
 
 
"Output parameters" tab includes:  
• Power factor that specifies the capabilities of this inverter for producing reactive 
energy. Producing reactive energy (Phase shift) may be a requirement of the grid 
manager.  
It is normally an operating parameter (command) set by the operator of the plant. 
- 
"Tan(phi) min/max» or «Cos(phi) Leading/Lagging": the limits which may be set for 
this inverter.  But the real value to be used for the simulation will be specified in 
the "Miscellaneous parameters" of the calculation version. 
"Nominal AC power (PNom) defined as …": specifies whether the nominal output power 
Pnom applies to the Active power [kW] or the Apparent power [kVA].  
 

--- Page 13 ---
  PVsyst SA – Components Databases 
Page 13 
 
In practice, this is most often applied to the Apparent power, as this corresponds to an 
output current limitation.   
 
 
 
• Max. AC power f(Temperature) 
- 
Many inverters specify a "PNom" value, and a “PMax value", representing a power 
attainable when the temperature is not too high. 
- 
"Allows overpower" specifies if this is implemented for this inverter. 
- 
The involved PMax is specified on the "Main parameters" page.  
- 
If not defined or equal to the PNom value, this option is disabled. 
- 
"High temperature limitations": defines other limitations as f(Temperature) on 
PNom. 
 
 
NB: The temperature involved in these specifications during the simulation is specified in 
the "Miscellaneous Tools". It may be the ambient temperature (outdoor installation), the 
ambient plus a constant, or a fixed (room) temperature. 
"Sizes and Technology" tab:  
- 
"Technology specificities" allows to specify some features in 5 lines of free text 
maximum.  
- 
"Operating conditions – Behavior at limits": Never modified, don't mind.  
"Commercial" tab: Identical to the corresponding page for PV modules.  
 
